## Signup & login pages

1. ### Initing vite & tailwind

    Packages needed: `tailwindcss` + `daisyui`.

    **tailwindcss**: CSS framework.
    **daisyui**: Tailwind CSS plugin that adds pre-built UI components and themes.

2. ### Created front-end routes

    Packages needed: `react-router-dom`.
    **react-router-dom** just links a React component with an URL path, so that we can make a frontend router.

    Settings up client-side routing using React {Routes, Route}, where:
     - BrowserRouter enables URL tracking.
     - Routes matches paths.
     - Each Route maps a URL to a React component.

3. ### Connected front-end with back-end

    Packages needed: `axios` + `cros` + `zustand`.
    **axios** client object used to send http requests to the backend.
    **cros** to fix the cross-origin problem.
    **zustand** to create a global state that we can share easly to multiple components.

    1. On each refresh, i send a get request from the useEffect() hook to "/api/auth/check" route.
    >useEffect is a state i created using zustand to call this hook from any react component easly.

    2. then the `protectRoute` middleware from the backend is called the check if there is valide user sending the request by checking the jwt from the request `Cookie` header.

    3. 
        if the jwt token is valide we send back to the front req.user
        else a throw is catched and we know that there is no user.


4. ### Protect routes based on the authentification status.

    We are doing so using the response we got earlier pinging /check from back-end. (userAuthObj)
    + Displaying spinner on page refresh.
    We are using conditional rendering.
        -> for example:
            if the the request containes this endpoint "http://localhost:5173/" but the user isn't yet logged in, we redirect him to the "http://localhost:5173/login" page.

5. ### Build signup page.

    Packages needed: `react-hot-toast` + `https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/vite`.
    **react-hot-toast**: React library used to display notifications, temporary messages that appear on the screen.
    **https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/vite**: importing local UI components and utilities generated by shadcn/ui.
    
    Setting up the front-end for the *Signup* + *Login* + *Navbar*.
    
    Handling the submit Button for Signup using *handleSubmit()* to parse the form data using *validateForm()*
    if the form data is valide -> *signup()* -> send the POST request:
    - `const res = await axiosInstance.post("/auth/signup", data)` -> to create a new user on the MongoDB.

6. ### Build login + logout page.

    #### login:

    - parse the login input onSubmit.
    - then i init the global state object *authUserObject* with the input that have been submitted.
    - then i call the action funtion from the global state *login* to send a POST request to:
        `/auth/login`
        to check if the user already exists or not.

    #### logout:

    - send POST request to the backend via `/auth/logout` to remove the JWT from the cookies.
    - init the global state variable *authUserObject* with null to target a re-render of the page -> then go to `/login` page.

7. ### Build Profile page (front-end) + link it with the backend.

    Tools needed: `Cloudinary`
    **Cloudinary**: Cloud service for storing images, it provides uploads API to make backend communicates with it.

    in this section: i handled client-side image upload in a React + TypeScript application.

    Prepared the profile page UI + with a custum label that contains `<input>` type of file, so we can click on it to chose the photo we want to use.
    when the button is clicked:
        -> i call the `handleImageUpload`
        -> get file from **e** object
        -> call the updateProfile() action that sends the PUT request to the "/auth/edit-profile" along with the picture *(to upload image to claudinary + update the DB)*.